today on Roberts full English breakfast
show we have a man who has been
passionate about cookery for many years
and he's worked at some of the top
michelin star hotels and restaurants in
London and in Barcelona since then he
has been the personal chef of the
shipping tycoon Sammy offer I'm thrilled
to have on the show today the very
talented chef Bryan Lee Bryan thanks
very much indeed for coming today thank
you for inviting me Robert not at all
well
I know you've worked in many of the very
top restaurants and hotels in London and
abroad but today I'm going to ask you to
do something a bit different it may be a
bit of a challenge and you couldn't do
me a fry-up or full english could you
sure fantastic well what are we going to
do okay well what I'm going to do today
is going I'm going to deconstruct the
English breakfast it's going to take
some items from it egg bacon tomorrow
and mushrooms and design the new
breakfast that is fantastic well English
breakfast first things first we can
start with that breakfast area
marvellous so I've made it made you a
porcini which is a wild mushroom rice
crispies and to enhance the mushroom
flavor Oh white truffle flavoured milk
here this is the the take on mushroom so
we smell sure but doesn't it very
special to me well it will taste divine
oh my goodness well you did tell me you
liked your ma extra cold so let's try
that
how's that for you well it looks almost
freezing I think that will do well is
that fine can I taste it certainly
please do this is wonderful here we go
- absolutely extraordinary they're
delicious
it feels like sort of Alice in
Wonderland it's like we've had our
cereal now what are we going to move on
to now yeah well I'm going to take the
tomato and what I've done is I've made
into a popcorn right so it's have a
basic popcorn and I've made it Tommaso
powder coated the popcorn in it and
for an extra dimension I'm going to add
some smoke flavor without a hickory
Apple smoke well as I said in my intro
you have for more than 10 years being
the personal chef of the shipping tycoon
the late mr. Sami offer could you tell
me something about mr. offer yes he's a
wonderful man with a great passion for
good food and also he's made a huge
contribution to the restoration of the
Cutty Sark and also the new wing at the
National Maritime Museum which has been
named after him
you are a great Greenwich man through
and through I know what is it about
Greenwich that you really like Brian so
many things riverside location world
heritage sites fantastic markets great
restaurants wonderful parkland and next
year we become an official role or of
london we're now infusing the popcorn
yeah they did it apple-smoked on that
don't close it so we can infuse it okay
well that is just amazing so we open
them and let's see what happens
they're really good you don't really
taste him so what's the next Friday
but not as you know it so in here I have
a saffron gel if I'm going to save the
saffron gel and place it in this
situation water here so so that's a sort
of setting agent as it is yes that will
set setting how do you like your eggs
Robert ovaries I was easy
yes I've always been told I like those
things done over easy but how about
sunny-side up
well let's go for that here we have a
tarragon cream tarragon and eggs go very
well together
oh no that there's the white of the egg
coming on I just take out the egg yolk
and what you're going to do with them
now even well I need I need to need to
have a little rinse in the bath yes
beautiful yolk head sitting and sitting
there stretching so there we go a fried
egg Robert that were you just stunning
Bryan okay now
- - bacon I can't believe it come over
here so what I have here is a bacon stop
right
what on earth is this this is jello this
is a microbiological gelling agent and
what does that - well what this will do
when it's when it's set Robert will
allow me to read he chips to a very high
temperature of the jelly so it feels
like a normal jelly you couldn't put it
in a frying pan because this is a sort
of magic potion so I'm going to put this
in here
leave this to set for about thirty
minutes right but as in all the best
shows I have one that I prepared earlier
well that's my guess so this is the
bacon gel which I'm going to cut with
actual sort of lozenge so it's not
actual bacon shape no but it is bacon
stock so it'll taste of bacon taste of
bacon so the next thing we're going to
do is fry it it's about 30 seconds you
either side right yeah it's on a neat
way of doing bacon lots of saves
actually having to faff around with it a
little stuck together
say it say some of the this smell as
well saves on this man portion control
and now this is the lozenge bacon Bosnia
bacon chickens ahead and go to add some
orange bubbles fantastic
now why eyes orange bubbles their
frigate bedfellows rubbish right orange
bacon aren't look at that
they're my bubble levels on orange will
bake an orange abate here and it'll
garnish here to add a bit of a chili
which address and their egos your fault
English and there is my full English
breakfast Brian you're a complete star
you're very welcome rubbish well thank
you very much indeed for coming on
Roberts full English breakfast show